---
layout: post
title:      "Why I'm Here"
date:       2017-07-29 10:07:11 -0400
permalink:  why_im_here
---


> We're all fixed in good faith in a certain concept of ourselves.  However, while you keep yourself in order, holding on with both your hands to your holy habit, there slips down from your sleeves, there peels off from you like...like a serpent...something you don't notice: life! Has it never happened to you to find a different self in yourself?  Have you always been the same?>  Luigi Pirandello, *Henry IV*

Our stories are never really linear.  In Lois Lowry's 1994 Newbery acceptance speech for *The Giver*, she compares the inspiration for her novel to springs and tributaries that feed into a river.  The stories of our lives can be told in many different ways depending on how we choose to connect all of moments, thoughts, and experiences that make us who we are.  I spent weeks thinking about and avoiding this post.  I don't know what it is about writing about myself that makes me cringe.  Maybe because it reminds me of so many angsty, over-the-top diary entries I wrote in soggy moleskins, and I don't want to get anywhere near that person.  Although I've answered this question countless times, I've responded in the abbrevited, half-true way we answer a lot of the questions we're asked--the uncomplicated cliffnotes version people don't have the time for or interest in the details.  When I finally started comitting words to the page, the following is what came out.  I definitely "over-answered," but it was clear that this story wanted telling.  Thank you for reading it. 

My beliefs and world-view went through a dramatic transformation in my early twenties.  I've always been fascinated by philosophy, religion, and different theories about viewing the world.  As soon as I had the opportunity to explore more ideas than my conservative Alabama upbringing taught me, I blew the lid off that Pandora's Box.  It destroyed me--at first.  I went from being completely confident in who I was and what I believed to not knowing up from down. That kind of existential crisis can wreck relationships pretty quickly, especially when they are based on a version of you who no longer exists (did I mention that I was extremely timid and hated personal conflict?).  Looking back, I'm surprised that I was as brave as I was.  After one too many uncomforrable conversations, my strength started to run out.  I couldn't take another disappointed look, and although I couldn't change how I felt or what I believed to be true, I could pick a "respectable" career.  Teaching was something I had always been interested in, so I applied for loans and graduate school, and met some really great (and some terrible) people as I worked the restaurant industry.
 
Although I wasn't sure teaching was the right fit for me, I had a lot of respect for the profession. I wanted to do what my teachers and professors has done for me--inspired, motivated, nurtured, and challenged me out of my comfort zone.  I eventually landed in a middle school teaching reading and English.  I fell in love with this age group, and they quickly cured me of any pretentiousness.  They made me laugh and broke my heart and I wanted them to have everything they deserved out of life.  I soon became addicted to making the institution of school a place where every kid could truly learn and grow without having to become a sheep or "like everyone else."  

During my eight years as a middle school teacher, I also learned a ton about myself. I was really good at redesigning established systems, expectations, and protocol to move education in a direction that better seved kids in today's world.  Thankfully, my administrators and closest colleagues shared my passion, and although they weren't ready to "tear down the walls," they supported me doing so in my own small way.  I got my students out of their desks, presented them with real problems that needed solving, and challenged them to question, find, and evaluate information instead of memorizing what what someone else said to be true.  Although this kind of teaching got many of my students excited about learning for the first time, it was a hard sell to the students who were really good at playing the game of school and the parents who saw no reason for education to change.  I also faced the difficult truth that the most important quality to being a great teacher was really hard for me.  As an introvert and a very rational thinker (INTP), establishing close relationships does not come easy to me.  Secondary teachers have to do this with 120+ students every single year.  I was essentially forcing myself to have a different personality, and it was wearing me down.  The last thing I wanted to become was some grouchy, burnt-out teacher (who, by the way, makes more than me).  Besides, I was restless and felt like I needed more room to grow.

It was the perfect time to make a change.  I was no longer the timid girl I was ten years ago and knew my own strengths and weaknesses.  I had always been the unofficial technology guru at my school, constantly seeking out tools that helped make daily tasks like grading, feedback, learning, and assessment more effective, efficient, and enjoyable.  My "happy place" was spending hours playing with spreadsheet formulas, Google Apps add-ons, and the HTML on our inadequate learning managment system.  I kept drifting down the hall to check out what was going on in our robotics and computer science classes.  Why not learn how to code?  I got hooked immediately when I tried out some courses on Code Academy, and it felt like I had finally found what my brain was wired to do. For any of it to "stick," I knew I had to redirect my focus. I always told my students not to let the fear of failure keep them from trying something new, so I had to walk the talk. After about a year of thinking it over and doing a lot of research, I resigned (with many tearful conversations) from the school that had become like family to me, and started researching coding bootcamps.  I was proud to start Flatiron's Online Web Developer program in mid June.

People ask me a lot what I want to do/where I want to work.  While I’m full of ideas, I'm even more excited about the possibilities I don't know about yet.  I shouted "Yes!" countless times when I read Avi's "Coding is Awesome," but this is what stuck with me: 

>On one level programming allows us to build things like Wikipedia and put the wealth of human knowledge at our fingertips. And many of our favorite websites and applications profoundly change the nature of the human experience for the better. Code, in this sense, is a philosophical framework for thinking about how to better the world. By gaining this skill you are learning a craft that shapes the world, and with that will come opportunities to change the world.
> 

I have loved reading your stories.  Here's to us using our different strengths and experiences to change world!



